# From-Parameters-to-Features-A-Forward-Inference-Paradigm-for-Cognitive-Diagnosis
From Parameters to Features: A Forward-Inference Paradigm for Cognitive Diagnosis

Cognitive diagnosis is a crucial task in intelligent education systems, aimed at analyzing students' proficiency based on their performance. Existing cognitive diagnosis methods achieve this goal by building a interpretable yet effective models that predict a student's likelihood of correctly answering a specific question based on learnable proficiency parameters. However, this traditional approach to cognitive diagnosis is inherently flawed in real-world scenarios such as real-time prediction, long-tail distributions, and unseen training data. To overcome the limitations of conventional methods, we propose a novel forward-inference paradigm for cognitive diagnosis, where a student's proficiency is directly generated through a single forward propagation. Under this paradigm, we introduce the Multivariate Gaussian Autoencoder Cognitive Diagnosis (MAGA-CD), which models students' proficiency as multivariate Gaussian distributions. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed MAGA-CD not only outperforms existing cognitive diagnosis models in traditional settings, but also excels in real-time prediction, long-tail distributions, and unseen training data scenarios.

This repository contains the open-source code for the paper "From Parameters to Features: A Forward-Inference Paradigm for Cognitive Diagnosis". We will be organizing and releasing the code and related resources for this study to facilitate further research and development in the field. Stay tuned for updates and the full release of the codebase.
